We learned about centralising dependency versions to keep the versions you use under control.
But just doing that is still a simplification when greater dependence of resolution.
So finding out which versions to use of all the external dependencies you depend on, and in the end
getting the jars of these dependencies, it might still use versions you never defined yourself.
This is because if you depend on some external libraries that are out of your control, like some larger
framework or library on base and central, then these might have transitive dependencies as well.
So commonly used components like Google Guava are used by many different libraries with possibly different
versions.
So even if you define a version for guava yourself, you might end up getting another version in the
end because transitive, another dependency pulled in another version.
If different versions are required in different places, simplified variables then select the highest
version.
There are many options to further influence this dependency constraints.
As we have seen before, actually do not only allow you to define one version, you can also open a
configuration block to define so-called rich versions which allow you to be much detailed about which
versions are allowed or to even force you to downgrade to a lower version.
In this course, I won't go into more details on this.
Many of these things are often also not needed in standard project setups.
So the first important thing is to have this realization that there can be other dependencies and especially
other versions of the dependencies you use added to your project through transitive dependencies.
So if you add something, an external library or framework to your product, have a good look at what
dependencies it may pull in in addition.
Gradle offers you a health task to inspect us, which is the dependencies tasks.
Make good use of this and make a decision.
If you add a new library, if you really want to add it with all the implications that might bring.
So the dependency starts choices dependencies of one configuration.
That is again like the runtime class path or the compiler class path.
So you can call it for a certain project and a certain configuration.
So for example, we can ask Gradle, show me the dependencies of our application.
So we address the dependencies task in the project, colon, colon dependencies, and then give the
parameter configuration runtime class pass.
We will see how gradle blueprints the dependency graph in the tree format.
And here we can see, for example, how our data model dependency transitivity brings in the commons
long dependency at runtime.
And similar things can happen for external dependencies used for not too large projects.
Conflicts might not be too problematic, and you can just rely on the standard resolution of Gradle
in larger project and legacy projects that already have a lot of dependency baggage.
It might be more complicated in this case.
Well, offers a bunch of mechanisms to deal with conflicts.
Going into all of these would be beyond this course.
So I already mentioned rich versions, which you can look up in the greater documentation to use them
to be more precise about which version you need.
Another tool that could come in handy, which I at least want to mention, is component metadata rules.
What is that?
So components that come from external repositories always have some metadata with them that tell something
about their dependencies mostly.
So there's a jar file, but there's also another file, usually a XML file that contains the dependency
information similar to how you put dependency information into your build files.
From this metadata, Gradle gets the information which other dependencies it might need to pull in if
you depend on something.
Now, sometimes this meta data is wrong, either general or maybe for your context, something is not
readable and maybe one of the dependencies is not needed at all because you don't use a certain part
of the library or something like that.
Then a component metadata can be used to adjust this in the rule.
You manipulate this metadata just to downloaded it from the repository and then to gradle.
It looks like the metadata would be different.
Let's have a quick look at how you can add a component metadata rule, just that you know where to start
if you want to look into this further.
Component metadata rules are something that's best edit in your convention, plug in at the very base
so that all projects have the same rules.
The rules are registered in the dependencies dot components block.
And the rule is best implemented in a separate class, similar to how you implement the task in a separate
class.
Let's assume that you want to correct the meta data of self.
Simple doesn't really make sense, but that's the dependency we have.
We tell Gradle for which dependencies meta data should be corrected and then we tell it which implementation
to use for that.
We don't have this rule yet, so it's not recognized at the moment, but we can add it by creating a
class with this name.
I'll do it here in Java again.
But as I said, for the tasks you could also implement it in Kotlin.
A component metadata rule implements the component metadata interface.
You should also add the Add Casper rule annotation because then the results of the rule will be cached
and it won't run every time you run your build.
Then you implement the execute method of the rule.
As a parameter.
This gives you some context.
You can access the metadata that you are about to modify and have methods to do the modification.
Usually you want to do a modification for all variants.
This is again the topic of configurations and variants, and then you have the possibility, for example,
to modify the dependencies in the metadata with the with dependencies block.
We can say, for example, that we want to remove a certain dependency with a certain detail.
So there are much more things you can do here.
And this is just a not very practical example of a component metadata rule so that you know where to
plug them in and where to adjust them to your needs.
So if you run the dependency task and you see something weird in there, which you didn't expect, and
then find out that the metadata of one component is not as it should be, you can use such rules to
adjust it.
So this was the last lecture about dependency, management and Gradle.
In this course, I just gave a very broad overview about what dependency management is and what are
the main features you should use in a standard project setup.
They are much more details to learn about dependency management.
If you have complex and large projects.
The topics I touched on give you some pointers of where to look for more information if needed.
I will also give some references to further resources you can check out at the end of the course.
Now, instead of spending more time on gritty dependency management details, I would like to talk about
some more practical things that you most likely need in your project, which is configuring the testing
of your code base.